VANILLA SPONGE CAKE

Wet ingredients:
30g neutral oil
40g milk 
(Warm it for 20-30 sec in microwave together and add 1 tsp vanilla. Give it a mix before adding it to the mixture) 

Dry ingredients:
120 grams all-purpose flour 
1 g salt 
1 tsp baking soda
(Mix it and sieve it before setting it aside)
130 grams sugar- goes with the egg whites. 
Cream of tartar (optional)

4 egg whites (comes to about 120grams)
4 egg yolks

Equipment- 
Stand mixer or hand mixer. (Whisking with hand manually may need a lot of elbow grease) 
Bowls 
Measuring and mixing Spoons
Sieve 
Hand whisk 
Rubber spatula 

Prep:
1.	Start whisking room temp eggs. Start with low speed and gradually go up. You can add a pinch of cream of tartar to help in stabilizing egg whites. 
2.	Add sugar in three portions. 2 min after the start and with 2 more times with equal time intervals. (Add sugar slowly to prevent deflation of egg whites)
3.	Observe for soft peaks. Your egg white peaks should fall off softly when you lift up the whisk. 
4.	Add yolks and mix it with hand whisk very gently. (You should see homogeneous mixture at this point)
5.	Start adding your dry ingredients to the same bowl. And fold it in with your rubber spatula. 
6.	Don’t worry about the lumps you see at this point.
7.	Add the oil and milk mixture at this point. It is okay if it is warm.
8.	You can use hand whisk to mix it at this point to mix in the lumps and to achieve smooth batter. 
9.	Weigh it in your pan. You get 2-3 layers if it’s in 6-inch pan or you can get one layer in 8 inch too. 
Tips- 
1.	Common Neutral oil is vegetable oil. Do not use canola oil. 
2.	Since the primary ingredient is vanilla, please try using pure vanilla extract. 
3.	You can replace one tbsp all purpose flour to corn flour to get more spongy texture! 
4.	Have everything ready before you start the preparation.
5.	Use big hand whisk to get smooth batter. (In the last steps)
6.	Treat your egg white delicately. You don’t want to look the air trapped inside the meringue. 
This recipe is also good for teatime cakes, muffins, cupcakes.
 I hope you like the recipe and please share pictures and tag us on Instagram.


https://www.instagram.com/little_bitesbakery?igsh=ZGNjOWZkYTE3MQ%3D%3D&utm_source=qr
